..
  Copyright 2014  Red Hat, Inc.

  This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
  International License. To view a copy of this license, visit
  http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.


Talk Title
==========

FreeIPA: Open Source Identity Management


Abstract
========

Identity management and authorisation are complex problems, and many
disjoint technologies have emerged as a result - but software should
be making life easier for users and administrators.  When it comes
to GNU+Linux in the enterprise, what is our answer to Active
Directory?

FreeIPA is an integrated identity management solution providing
centralised user, host and service management, authentication and
authorisation in Linux/UNIX networked environments, with a focus on
ease of deployment and management.  It is built on top of well-known
Open Source technologies and standards including 389 Directory
Server, MIT Kerberos and Dogtag Certificate System.

This talk will cover the basics of FreeIPA - the main features it
provides (and why those features matter), the deployment process,
how to enrol clients in the domain, and interoperability with Active
Directory and other technologies - and will conclude with a look
ahead to what's on the roadmap.

Project URL: http://www.freeipa.org/


Target audience
===============

Business


Speaker Bio
===========

Fraser is a developer at Red Hat, where he works on the FreeIPA
identity management solution and Dogtag Certificate System.  He is
passionate about security and privacy.  In his spare time, Fraser
writes a lot of Haskell and patiently awaits the strongly-typed
functional programming revolution.


Relevant experience
===================

Having presented at various Brisbane user groups over the past few
years (Brisbane Functional Programming Group, BrisPy, Brisbane Perl
Mongers), I'm levelling up to conferences.  In August I will be
presenting at PyCon Australia, and I'm submitting another
FreeIPA-related talk for OSDC, so perhaps I will have also presented
on FreeIPA, come January.
