Title
=====

Real World Functional Programming


Miniconf Summary
================

Functional programming (FP) is an approach to programming that
models computation as the evaluation of mathematical functions.
Drawing from fields of mathematics including lambda calculus and
category theory, FP emphasises purity, immutability, abstraction and
composability - qualities that underpin FP's reputation of
succinctness, comprehensibility and the ability to move fast and
*not* break things.  Popular FP languages include Haskell, Scala,
Clojure, Erlang, Elm, Purescript, F# and Rust; well known projects
using FP include xmonad, git-annex, CouchDB, Riak and Pandoc.

linux.conf.au 2016 hosted the inaugural FP Miniconf, featuring talks
covering theoretical foundations of programming and the basics of FP
in a variety of languages.

In 2018, the rubber hits the road at the Real World Functional
Programming Miniconf.  Come and see how companies and individuals
are exploiting FP in real projects.  Implementation case studies,
experience reports, and practicalities of releasing, deploying,
maintaining or contributing to open source FP projects are some of
the topics in scope for this miniconf.

The miniconf will cater for newcomers to FP who want to learn not
just the *why* of FP, but also the *how*.  With a focus on the
practical application of FP, there will be plenty for experienced
FPers too.


Call for Proposals
------------------

We are looking for talks that examine the use of FP in open source
projects, or the use of open source FP programs or libraries within
a broader context.  Some specific topics for study and discussion
could include:

- Project case studies: architecture, API design, etc.

- Integrating functional languages with existing non-FP codebases

- Practicalities of releasing, deploying, monitoring and maintaining
  programs written in functional languages

- Experience reports about adopting FP in a project or organisation

- Quantitative or qualitative research about the use of FP in the
  Free Software community

- How to contribute to open source FP projects

Talks should be of interest to FP newcomers and experienced
practitioners alike; we are unlikely to accept proposals that assume
prior knowledge of FP.  Talks must relate to free/open source
software; ideally they should relate to one or more open source
projects where FP is exploited.


Private abstract
----------------

I organised the linux.conf.au 2016 FP Miniconf.  It was *very*
successful (for some talks we had to turn people away because the
room was full).  At that event, most of the talks were either
teaching foundational theory (parametricity, Church encoding, etc)
or covered the basics of FP in some non-FP language (Python, JS,
Swift, etc).

Thus, despite "Functional Programming" appearing in the name, this
miniconf has quite a different theme from 2016, with a clear focus
on the use of FP in real projects.

I hope to get a couple of keynote speakers to "bookend" the
miniconf.  At time of submission I do not have anyone lined up, but
there are several groups doing cutting edge work with FP in Sydney
(Data61's verified systems and Blockchain groups, and Ambiata's work
with Haskell come to mind) so my search for outstanding keynote
speakers will hopefully not be in vain!
